In this video I'll explain NSX service composer and we'll talk about how it can be used to provide automation
and third party integration for the NSX firewall.
So Service composer is going to allow a pretty high level of automation in our NSX firewall using something
called Dynamic tagging.
It can also allow us to integrate with third party services like anti-virus or intrusion prevention
systems and it does so using two types of objects.
Security Groups and security policies it can provide guest introspection services.
And this is really useful for data loss prevention tools or anti-virus tools.
It can also provide network introspection which is useful for deploying some sort of third party intrusion
prevention system.
And it also has dynamic and static inclusion rules to govern what actually gets dropped into our security
groups.
Service composer provides a high level of automation and we are going to create something called security
groups that basically associate objects that we want to protect such as virtual machines.
The app's resource pools host clusters.
They can even be made up of simply IP sets and an active directory security groups as well.
We can even create security groups based on virtual machine information like the operating system type
or the virtual machine name.
And there's many other security group dynamic membership configurations that we can create.
So essentially what we're trying to do here is create a group of objects that we want to apply some
rules to and that's what our security policies are.
Our security policies are going to be the rules and services that we want to apply to these objects.
They could even be simple firewall rules.
A security policy can be as simple as that.
Or maybe I want to forward traffic to an intrusion prevention system or maybe I want to have an anti-virus
solution that scans those virtual machines using d'Este introspection
so step one is going to be creating our security groups.
And we have a couple different ways that we can do this.
We can use dynamic inclusion and dynamic inclusion will automatically add objects to a security group
based on a wide variety of criteria like the operating system and the computer name the virtual machine
name security tags that have been applied by an anti-virus solution for example.
We can also define static inclusion and a static exclusion criteria.
So if there are certain objects that I want to make sure are not included in some security group I can
statically either include or exclude those objects and I can do it on any of these object types that
you see listed here.
I can say certain virtual machines should be included in the security group certain hosts or clusters
should be included in the security group or I can even identify individual virtual next or IP addresses
or Active Directory security groups.
We've got a lot of flexibility here.
And I can statically exclude objects based on all that same criteria
Okay.
So before we move any deeper here let's quickly just review the security groups.
These are what we want to protect and we can create a security group that includes a bunch of virtual
machines and then I can apply some security policy to that security group.
So for example I might create a security group for all of my database virtual machines and I might have
a specific set of firewall rules geared towards my database via UPS in a security policy.
Now I only need to create one rule to enforce that policy to that group of virtual machines.
And that's what these security groups and policies are all about.
And they're also all about automation.
Now notice here all of this dynamic inclusion criteria let's focus on the virtual machine name for a
moment if I simply name all of my database VMS something that includes the letters D-B I can then create
a security group that will detect any VM with the letters D.B in the name and what it will then do is
I can assign a security policy to that security group.
So the moment I create any virtual machine named D-B anything the appropriate firewall rules will be
immediately applied based on its dynamic inclusion in a security group.
You can set up a dynamic and static membership in the same security group if you want static.
Exclusion takes precedence over anything.
So if I create a rule to statically exclude certain objects that takes precedence over any of these
other criteria that I might identify
So how does all this help me as an administrator.
Well let's compare a traditional firewall rule to those created with service composer.
So here I see a few firewall rules.
I have one rule that says app one an apt to are blocked from communicating with destinations the DB
one and DB2.
And then I've got another rule that says anything on V.N. 5000 to is allowed to communicate with anything
on VNA five thousand one.
So essentially I've created a firewall policy that is preventing Apple on an app to from talking to
D-B one and D-B to but then after that I've got a rule that's allowing anything on that Vienne 5000
to talk to V and five thousand one.
So remember when we're looking at our firewall rules the first to match is ex-student So app one an
app to cannot talk to divi one and DB2 even though the very next rule says Vee and five 5000 two can
talk to Vienna five thousand one.
However what about D-B 3 well app on an app to can talk to that.
No problem.
Because they don't match the first rule.
But the second rule is a match.
And now what if I add yet another app virtual machine called app 3 Well let's assume that DB You want
NDB to our really sensitive data.
I've just created a new VM and that new VM doesn't have any rules specifically applied to it so therefore
it's on V.N. 5000 to the destination is in Vienna five thousand one app three is going to be able to
communicate with D-B wan and D-B to
what if instead of doing it that way where I might accidentally open up some holes in my security.
I just created a security group called app group and any CMS with the letters APCP in their name are
going to be dynamically included in the app group security group and any via SMS with the letters D.B
and the name will be dynamically included in my DD group.
And now I have one firewall rule at the beginning of my firewall rule ruleset that says app group can't
talk to DB group.
Now the moment I create any new db server it's going to be automatically protected.
Not only that but my firewall rule set is extremely short.
I don't have to have one rule for each DB virtual machine.
They're all contained in this db group security group.
So it has the added bonus of keeping my firewall rules set very short.
Now one other side note I want to mention if there is a conflict between security policies the policy
with the highest the weight takes priority.
So by default when you create a new security policy it's automatically given the highest weight you
can manually change those values but by default if there is a conflict between two security policies
the newest security policy will win that conflict unless you go in there and manually configure the
way.